* * *


1-2


Time passed by uncomfortably slowly. Almost half an hour had passed since the call to Yukinoshita. To reach us from her apartment she’ll need some more time. And it was us who called here over so far from her place, and now we couldn’t leave. The coffee I’ve sipped was long gone, and the cloud of steam from the teapot was also no more. Yuigahama was fidgeting on her seat in irritation, throwing glances at the entrance. The only calm person here was Haruno-san. She checked something on her phone, then tapped the screen and showed something to Hayama.
“Check it out.”

“Quite cute, yes,” Hayama said with a smile. Haruno-san hmm’ed and smiled.

“Such a typical answer from you, Hayato,” she replied and Hayama shrugged. I didn’t know what she asked him about, but his reply was too polite. But yeah, that indeed was typical of him. Haruno-san immediately lost interest in us, stood up, moved to me and showed her phone screen to me. The screen showed some kind of pajama. Unsaturated pastel colors, some sweets-like thingies; overall it was really cute. Yuigahama looked at it too and whispered “cute”. Seemed like Haruno-san had been studied it for some time already. And judging by the current conversation she was going to present it to Yukinoshita.

“What do you say, Hikigaya-kun?” Haruno-san asked. She was now lying on the table, supporting herself with her elbows and dangling the phone in her hand. I couldn’t decide what to look for: her phone or her herself. She meanwhile looked me in the eyes. Why would you need such deep cleavage anyway? And your face is too close! Were this some kind of game where I had to stare at the screen, I’d lose it instantly!

“Quite cute, yes,” I said averting my eyes from Haruno-san.

“Cynical answer. So you, Hikigaya-kun,” Haruno-san proudly smiled and sat back to her seat, placed her order and started fiddling with her phone again. I was getting tired from this conversation. Sighing quietly I closed my eyes and lowered my head. Some time later Yuigahama noticed something and called. I raised my head to look and found Yukinoshita walking briskly to us.

“Yukinon, we’re here!” Yuigahama said waving her hand. Yukinoshita noticed us and approached our table.

“Yuigahama-san, you’re here too?” she asked in surprise. Oh, yeah, I didn’t mentioned it when we talked.

“Yeah, ummm… Me and Hikki were shopping when we were caught,” Yuigahama said giggling and touched her hair bun. She was apparently in doubt about saying were were shopping for her presents, so the phrase turned out to have a double meaning.

“Shopping… All right.” Yukinoshita replied and started throwing suspicious glances to me and Yuigahama. Feeling pressure from the question unasked Yuigahama started looking at me and Yukinoshita too. They didn’t say anything, just exchanged glances. Silence fell again, even though not for long. I heard only the other patrons talking, cups clicking on saucers, quiet music, waitstaff’s footsteps and Haruno-san’s muffled giggling. So many sounds yet the silence was somehow unnerving.

“Take a seat maybe?” Hayama decided to break the silence. Yuigahama moved on the sofa abruptly.

“S-sit here,” she called pointing to the now free seat.

“Oh, thanks,” Yukinoshita said and obediently put off her coat, carefully folded it and sat down. Then she turned to Yuigahama.

“I apologize for causing you trouble.”

“No, it’s okay,” Yuigahama said waving her hands. Yukinoshita exhaled, seemingly calming down. After that she turned to me and looked somewhere above.

“Hikigaya-kun, umm...”

“No problem, didn’t have anything better to do anyway.”

I didn’t have any plans as to what to do when we were done with the shopping. I even felt relief that we weren’t left alone together. Though I couldn’t say I was glad I’ve encountered these people either. The culprit meanwhile smile provocatively.

“Yukino-chan, you’re late.”

“You called me out of the blue and then you dare ask such questions?” Yukinoshita answered with a dark side glance. Haruno-san only looked at her in amusement. Yuigahama, as if caught between a rock and a hard place, simply tried to smile. No! Stop fighting, o Yukinoshita Sisters!

“But Yukino-chan came here as quickly as she could...” it was said by a kind and lively voice to lighten the mood some. Hearing him address Yukinoshita-like that I turned to the source of the voice, Hayato Hayama. He realized that he said too much and smiled to smooth it.

Yukinoshita just quietly stared at him. He shrugged.

“Yukinoshita-san, would you like to order something?”

“Black tea, please...” she finally replied. Hayama quickly made an order. When the tea was brought Haruno-san made a long sigh.

“Been so long since we gathered to drink tea like this.”

“Yeah,” Hayama agreed.

Yukinoshita just closed her eyes, the teacup steady in her hands. Conversation stopped abruptly, and Yuigahama tried to resume it.

“Ah, um… Hayato-kun is your acquaintance?”

“Yep! He’s the only child so his parents really spoiled us too. Right, Yukino-chan?”

“Not really for me...”

“Oh come on. Not just his parents, everyone did.”

But neither Haruno-san’s words nor Hayama’s ear-to-ear smile didn’t affect Yukinoshita. Though Haruno-san seemingly was bothered by this at all, as she turned away.

“Been so long time ago. You were little, so when your parents were busy they left you in my care.”

Hering it Yukinoshita frowned.

“You’re getting things wrong. In fact you just dragged us along wherever you wanted. It was horrible,” Yukinoshita said putting the cup on a saucer and threw a cold look to Haruno-san. Hayama reacted to that.

“Oh, right. That time in the zoo was bad.”

“And the seaside park too. She left us alone, she shook the Ferris wheel pod...”

Their faces become gloomy after they had to remember the dark times. Haruno-san instead only merrily confirmed Yukinoshita’s story.

“Yep, yep, true that. Yukino-chan used to cry a lot.”

“I didn’t. Stop making things up.”

“I dooon’t! Right, Hayato?”

“Hehe. Well, I wouldn’t say...”

Haruno-san recalled stuff, Hayama said something to that, Yukinoshita quietly nodded. Watching them talk about their past, I suddenly realised something. No matter what they said, they did spend considerable time together and experienced things together. An outsider had no place in those memories. Even Yuigahama didn’t try to take part in the conversation, to say nothing about me. I didn’t know what kind of relationships they had in the past, and even if I did nothing would change. All I could do was sip my bitter coffee and quip some neutral phrases from time to time. And imagine some things.

I was asked once: what would have changed had I attended their primary school? What did I answer back then? Deep in the recollections of the past, I suddenly heard the cup being put on the saucer. I turned to the source of the sound and saw Haruno-san, who propped her face with her hands and was now looking at Hayama and Yukinoshita with an unreadable look.

“You were so cute back then. And are so boring now,” Haruno-san’s beautiful shining lips uttered, smiling but with an icy tone. Everyone fell silent. Yukinoshita clenched her fists on the table while Hayama pursed his lips and turned away. Yuigahama looked at me, worried. Seeing the silence Haruno-san smiled.

“But now I have Hikigaya-kun. You couldn’ve cuddled her, you know. Would’ve been fun.” Haruno-san said finishing her phrase. I felt chills down my spine that very instant. She now stared at me, her eyes questioning but dark at the same time.

“Well, nothing physical please...” I said turning away so I wouldn’t drown in Haruno-san’s eyes. She smirked in response.

“That’s why I wanna cuddle you. Cute fluffy Hachiman, come to me,” and with those words she tried to put her hand on my head. I dodged her at the last moment.

“Oh, he ran away,” Haruno-san said kindly, like an elder sister. It was rare for me to see an older smiling beauty like this, so I couldn’t say I didn’t like it. And I didn’t care if this was a real face or a pretense anymore. No person wouldn’t try to be cuter than they were, like Iroha Isshiki. You can’t blame people for that.

What I was really afraid of was Haruno-san’s darkness, the glimpses of which I caught. Right now, though, Haruno-san didn’t say anything anymore. Instead she smiled and changed the topic.

“On topic of all things physical. You have a marathon at the end of a month, right?”

“Yeah, at the end of the month,” Yuigahama answered. Haruno-san was surprised.

“Oh, not in February this year?”

“Yes. The homeroom teacher said they are shifting the schedule this year,” Hayama replied calmly. Yukinoshita’s face darkened. Oh yeah, you and your lack of stamina. She probably never liked these things.

Now carefree atmosphere was back again. It was all fine and good, but the company of five people having conversation drew attention. Of course we didn’t look overly flashy, but we still stood out. Well, they stood out… I felt the stares from behind the entrance. They all were very beautiful people. So beautiful they turned heads while walking down the street. Because of that I got the impression I became even more invisible. I’m a shadow… But the brighter the light, the darker the shadow. I’ve got nothing better to do, so I’ll just stay in the background. Just like Tetsuko Kuroyanagi. Since I didn’t take part in their talks I instead sipped my coffee more often, so the cup became empty quickly. Perfect timing! A good reason to stand up.

“Sorry, gotta step out,” I quickly said and left. In fact I didn’t have anything that urgent to do. In general, when you say “I’m stepping out” in such cafes or restaurants, everyone understands the meaning. So no one will stop you or be in your way. Probably that’s why people drink diuretic drink like tea, coffee or alcohol when they gather. They also help smooth the atmosphere, or, to be more precise, to reset it. For example if you happened to attend a banquet and encounter an unpleasant person you can always leave for the bathroom, then return and pick a different table. Maybe we should sell tea, coffee and something else under the mysterious slogan “beverage for traditional conversations”, the sales would raise. Or not. Thinking about it all on the way to the exit, I suddenly heard a very alarming phrase.


“Oh, I’ve got some business too,” a merry, perky voice said. All too merry to my taste even, to the point of being a lie. I heard the sound of quick footsteps behind me. She tapped my shoulder and I turned over. It was her.
“Take a walk with a big sis, will you? It won’t take long.” Haruno Yukinoshita said with a smile and a tilt of her head.

“But I’m, well...” I refused with a frozen smile on my own and started slowly walking to the exit, but her hand was still on my shoulder. Hmmm, I can run away this way! But at the very same moment her hand slid down and grabbed my arm firmly.


“Don’t be so cold. Let’s go on a date, Hachiman,” She whispered in my ear, suddenly drawing closer. Now that was one hell of a killer phrase. I couldn’t muster any resistance whatsoever and simply walked where she guided me, leaving the cafe behind.


* * *


2-2


On our way back to the cafe neither me nor Haruno-san said a word. She probably had already said everything she wanted. There was no answer for the stated question, so that question’s left hanging now. Instead… no, no “instead”. It’s just upon returning to her seat Haruno-san now was her usual energetic self.
“Here, Yukino-chan, happy birthday. Big sis chose very carefully,” Haruno-san approached Yukinoshita and handed her the present.

“Sister… What’s this all of a sudden?”

Yukinoshita had no reasons not to accept the birthday present yet she still was confused. Yuigahama too saw the gift wrap, and her eyes sparkled.

“Aah, it’s from that store! Everything’s so cute there!”

“Yep! Smart girl Gahama-chan, as expected. Cute things for my cute little sister! Let her feel my love,” Haruno-san proudly said while pointing to Yuigahama. Yukinoshita followed their conversation, then took a closer look to the present.

“Love?.. Though come to think about it, it is indeed cute...” Yukinoshita quietly said and nodded. Seemed like she liked it. She carefully placed the wrap on her knees and opened it.

“Thank you.”

“You’re welcome.”

Haruno-san looked at Yukinoshita’s reddened cheeks and smiled in satisfaction. I tried to predict this, but turned out the world had been painted pink with all the kindness and tenderness. Yurinoshita sisters, I would like so much if you always stayed this way. I wasn’t the only one enjoying this moment of happiness. Hayato Hayama also watched them all this time with gentle eyes. Then he seemed to notice something as he reached somewhere under the table, took his cellphone and checked it. Apparently he got mail.
“Haruno-san, it’s time,” he whispered.
“Oh, already?” Haruno-san said rolling the sleeve of her blouse and checking the small watch wrapped around her slim pale wrist. Seemed like they had to go meet the parents. It also meant we had to say goodbye now. I won’t survive a “come with us”. I’m not ready to meet Hayama’s parents. A chance to flee!

“Well, we gotta go too.”

“Yep,” Yuigahama agreed. Haruno-san and Hayama also decided it was appropriate time to say their goodbyes and nodded.

“Oh...” Yukinoshita muttered absentmindedly. Me and Yuigahama on one side and Haruno-san and Hayama on the other looked at her in wonder. Haruno-san then stared at her intently.

“Yukino-chan, what do you plan to do?”

“What do you mean?”

“The meeting. You coming or not? We’ll celebrate your birthday too. Though I’m done for today so I don’t care,” Haruno-san said, her voice cold. And here she so desperately tried to reach her hours earlier. I don’t think handing the present was all Haruno-san wanted to do, but Yukinoshita did have a choice.

“Well...” Yukinoshita said, unable to choose, and hesitantly looked at Yuigahama and me. Yuigahama showed a puzzled smile.

“Ah, don’t mind us.”

“Yeah. We’re going home anyway.”

“Alright,” Yukinoshita replied indecisively and lowered her eyes. Yuigahama stoped smiling, but then remembered something and immediately reached for the bag under her arm.

“Oh, right! Here, take it. Even though it’s kinda early, your birthday only tomorrow and all,” Yuigahama said and handed Yukinoshita the bag with the presents. Well, if Yuigahama can do it, so can I.

“Congratulations,” I said.

“Th-thanks,” Yukinoshita froze for a second, but then thanked us while holding her presents to her chest and smiling. Looking at her Yuigahama couldn’t help but smile too.

“I’ll buy something sweet tomorrow, so we’ll celebrate at school too, okay?” Yuigahama added, probably out of politeness; she apparently too thought that just saying goodbye to friends in this situation is akin to shooing them. I think I should behave accordingly too.

“Bye,” I said raising my hand; Yukinoshita smiled again. Seemed like Yuigahama’s politeness was enough for us both since Yukinoshita hesitantly raised her hand in response.

“Yes, See you later.”

“Later!” Yuigahama perkily waved her hand.

“Goodbye,” Haruno-san said to Yuigahama while raising from her seat.

“Bye!”

“See you at school.”

Haruno-san broadly waved to us, Hayama calmly smiled; me and Yuigahama exited the shop.

The elevator was not far away from here. No one else headed to it, so the silence was only interrupted by the sounds of our steps.

“Hey, what do you think I should take tomorrow? Chocolate cake? Or maybe cupcakes?” Yuigahama asked stopping at the elevator call button.

“Just take whatever you like,” I asked; Yuigahama snorted in annoyance.

“Hikki, think properly about it too. I like both so I can’t decide. Hmmm, how about a half of both?”

“What is it, pizza? You don’t divide such things.”

By the way, does she really think we could eat the whole cake? Seriously? Well, if it was tasty then whatever. Though we really ought to pick something before we returned home.

A reached the call buttons. A triangle pointing up and a triangle pointing down. My hand stopped, hesitating to push any of the buttons. To select the right road forward… For that I pushed one of the buttons.


Chapter 3: Naturally, Iroha Isshiki Doesn’t Forget About the Landmine


The first three days of the new years had passed, and the whole New Year fuss had died down. My parents, who were previously resting, went to work again and became busy as usual. Komachi started seriously studying for exams. Because of it me and Kamakura were left to our devices. But relaxing atmosphere doesn’t mean relaxed mind for me. Leisure instills a sense of dread in the hearts of people. When you’re constantly busy you don’t have time to ponders about such things. When you’ve got nothing to do, you can’t help but start thinking about your aimless future and become depressed.
Ah, I don’t want neither to go to school nor go to work. Such were the thoughts that visit me during the short winter vacation. It’s as if these thoughts make a hint: the time of leisure always comes to an end. In fact, we all know that this time never lasts long. And since you have so little time, your mind becomes burdened with a task of wasting it. I wonder if that’s how it is for NEETs who suddenly realize their parents are getting old? Such thoughts I was thinking while lying on the floor and scratching the cat’s fluffy belly. But the true strength was in being able to withstand that burden! I’m a real unemployed guy. Sometimes they say “time to show what you’re capable of”, mister unemployed ranobe writer. In other words, “ranobe writer” = “unemployed”. QED. Or Spiral, if you prefer.

Today the school starts. Because of the mesed up daily rhythm I was in a hurry this morning. After washing my face, wetting and combing my hair and checking my look in the mirror I felt cold morning air washing away the remainder of my drowsiness.

All right, let’s do our best today too!


* * *


3-2


After the first day after vacation the class was noisier than usual. Overly excited students greeted each other and wished happy new year. Probably their excitement to meet each other was combined with one from the New Year.
Even after the classes had ended the excitement was still there. Many of the students stayed in the classroom, probably to discuss all sorts of things. Hayato Hayama and Yumiko Miura’s group was especially outstanding. They always were the noisiest, but today they outdid themselves. Ooka, Tobe and Yamato, as usual, were chatting about various stuff, while Hayama was sitting near the window and looked outside, his head resting on his hand. Sometimes, as if remembering about their existence, he said something to keep the conversation going and smiled. The girls, on the other hand, appeared to not be interested in guys’ talk and were chatting about something other. Though one of them didn’t talk at all. She simply was sitting fully leaning on the chair and twirling her hair with a miffed expression. Though time after time she threw condescending glances at Ooka and others. Maybe Ooka was scared of her scorn, or maybe just decided to switch the topic, but, as if remembering something, he coughed and asked:

“By the way, Hayato-kun, is it true you’re going out with Yukinoshita-san?”

“What?” Miura reacted without fully realizing what he had just said. So probably was I. What the hell was he talking about? That just… plain can’t happen… right? Or can it? Upon hearing the question everybody froze. Too bad time can’t freeze like that.

“Say what?!” Miura jumped up, her chair rumbling loudly behind. Everyone fell silent and turned to her. It’s as if the whole classroom was submerged into water-- so quiet it was.

“N-nah, no way it can happen!” Yuigahama quickly said, sensitive to the atmosphere in class. Ebina-san agreed. There also was one more person speaking:

“Exactly. I heard that...” Yamato said, slowly and calmly, the Yamato no one usually noticed despite his height and physique. Everyone waited for him to continue, but he just fell silent. Instead he decided to turn his eyes to Yuigahama. The rest of the class followed suit.

“Wha?.. Me?.. She asked, shuddering. Maybe I shuddered too. The hell’s Yamato blabbering about? That just plain can’t happen… or can it? Throwing a glance at Yugahama’s direction I notice another person also looking at her.

“Yu… Yui? Eh?..” Seemingly having spent all the air in her lungs, Miura didn’t shout anymore, only opened and closed her mouth like a fish. Yuigahama and Hayama looked at each other.

“No-no-no-no-no! No way! Ain’t happening! I mean, I’m… Anyway, no!” Yuigahama defended herself while swaying her hands.

“Yes, Yui’s correct,” Hayama said calmly; that shifted everyone’s attention to him. Class fell silent yet again. So his words were clearly heard by everyone.

“Where did you get this irresponsible information from?” Hayama asked and looked at Ooka and Yamato; both shivered under his stare. Hayama always was detached, so now that he said it head-on, they stumbled, not knowing what to say. A drop of sweat appeared on Yamato’s forehead. But Hayama’s look clearly said “spit it”. I’ve seen that face of his once. It was in late autumn, at the double date with Orimoto and her friend. Under the pressure of this look Ooka started haltingly explaining himself:

“N-no one. It’s just… rumors… that you were seen together in Chiba during winter holiday.”

“Yeah. Heard that too,” Yamato confirmed. Hayama sighed lightly; the corner of his mouth raised slightly.

“Oh, got it now. I’m sorry, but it wasn’t that much of a rare event. Just family business and met Yui by accident.”

“Y-yeah! Exactly!” Yuigahama eagerly confirmed Hayama’s words. He just smiled and nodded:

“Besides, no way it can happen. Right, Tobe?” Hayama asked with his usual smiled, tapping Ooka’s shoulder.

“Y-yeah, totally no way.”

“All right?” Hayama asked, as if to assure himself, and looked to Ooka and Yamato.

“Yeah, no way! I thought so myself!”

“Shouldn’t have said it in the first place then,” Hayama said and jokingly touched Ooka’s face with his fist. Everyone could clearly see the boys were joking, and the class settled down again. Hayama took his bag and stood up:

“To the club?”

“Yeah, ‘bout time.”

“Let’s go then,” He said calmly. Ooka and Yamato followed Tobe and said goodbye to the girls, then left. Miura wordlessly followed them with her eyes. She was still sitting there, biting her lip, her fingers grabbing her hair motionlessly. Yuigahama carefully put her hand on Miura’s shoulder and seriously looked into her face:

“It’s true, someone got mistaken. There were others with us too.”

“R-really?” Miura worriedly asked. Yuigahama just smiled:

“Yep. I was out shopping that day and met Yukinon’s sister by accident. Her and Hayato-kun’s families are actually friends, so they wanted to celebrate New Year together. Yukinon was just called there.”

What’s with this silly explanation? Like explaining things to a little girl. Ebina-san summed it up:

“I see. So someone accidentally saw them meeting for family business and the rumors spreaded.”

“Yeah, probably.”

“You three really stand out, so it’s easy to notice you.”

I finished listening, stood up and exited the classroom.


* * *


3-3


Even the corridor was noisier than usual. Winter vacation had just ended, so everyone made a fuss over that. The students even gathered in the club wing.

“Hey, you heard? About Hayama-kun.”

“Yeah, heard that! Believe that, for real.”

I heard that all from the girls passing by. Maybe, as Ebina-san noted in classroom, they’ve heard some bits and pieces, assembled them as they pleased and spreaded them further. Thing is, it didn’t concern me in any way, but every time I heard that I felt an unpleasant sensation. It probably was the disdain for the people who I don’t even know who still were spreading those rumors. Though there probably wasn’t any evil intent in their actions. Maybe it was because those concerned the two people constantly on the tip of everyone’s tongue that this info was even juicier. So everyone naturally started gossiping about it without even checking the source. They mindlessly spread the rumors no one even could confirm. And if someone’s got caught on that, they could always disclaim responsibility by saying “it’s just a rumor”. Usually they always tried to grab as much attention as possible, but as soon as it all goes south they prefer to blend into the crowd. I really disliked that. I’d rather hear shit about myself eye-to-eye.

Thinking about that I heard perky footsteps behind, seemingly trying to catch up to me. That couldn’t be anyone else but Yuigahama. I slowed down a bit so she could approach me. Yuigahama hit my thigh with her bag.

“You left without me again.”

“Well, you were talking about something.”

Besides, I didn’t promise to wait for you to go to the club. Though I did make such promise all the way back in December. Apparently Yuigahama thought it was still valid.

“Hey, did you… hear our conversation?”

You were really standing out as you were, even without Miura shouting. I think the whole class heard it.

“T-There wasn’t anything! Honest!” Yuigahama quickly said taking several steps ahead and looking me in the eye. You don’t have to persuade me like that, you know.

“I’ve been there and seen everything. You forgot or something?”

“I didn’t… It’s just… not about that.”

“Rumors are rumors. A fiction.”

“Yeah, but...” Yuigahama said and stopped. Moment later she raised her face..

“But you know… One day it may become true for Yukinon and Hayato-kun… and me too...”

I tried to imagine that and failed. Yukinoshita was one thing, but Hayama dating someone specific was impossible to visualize. Yuigahama on the other hand was easy to imagine. She’s really popular with boys, according to Tobe. Besides, when we helped organizing the Sports Festival, I constantly saw other boys cling to her. Can’t think I like to think about it all though. So I tried to wrap the conversation up.


“Don’t know, just… Don’t talk about it in club, okay?”

“Hm? Why?” Yuigahama frowned and looked at me.

“She’ll get angry, you know.”

“Oh, right!”

That’s knowing someone for a year to you. I could easily imagine an angry Yukinoshita. She really would be mad when she learns about those irresponsible rumors. Me and Yuigahama looked at each other, nodded and opened the clubroom door for the first time since long ago.


* * *


3-4


The clubroom was already warm. Sighing, I took my usual seat. Yuigahama’s cake was already on the table, cut into slices.
“Happy birthday!”

“Congrats.”

“Happy birthday, Yukinoshita-senpai!“
Yukinoshita appeared to be flustered by our words.
“T-thank you… Should I prepare the tea?” She asked and started brewing the black tea. Along with the sound of tableware clinking I heard the familiar surprised voice.

“Yukinoshita-senpai, so your birthday is January 3rd, huh… By the way, mine’s on April 15th, senpai.”

“Didn’t even ask.”

The hell was she doing here anyway? She lightly tilted her head, her flaxen hair swaying. Her cardigan’s sleeves showed underneath the well-worn school uniform. In her small hand was a fork, as if she wanted something. Iroha Isshiki was in our club as if it was normal. She had one of the four slices and a paper cup full of tea. You’re really good at adapting. Are you from TOKIO or something? She would probably survive on an inhabited island.

“What are you doing here?”

“Eh? Well, you know. There’s really nothing to do in student council this time of year.”

“What do you mean ‘nothing’? There’s always something to do. Not that I know the details. Then, I don’t know, go to your club. You’re still manager there, did you forget?” I said. Isshiki tapped my shoulder.

“Eh, what’s the big deal? Oh! I came here to pick things I’ve left here before Christmas.”

“You just made that up, didn’t you.”

Such a convenient excuse that was.

“Hm…”

Yukinoshita sighed while Yuigahama showed a strained smile. Damn you, Irohasu… We all understood everything but Isshiki still behaved like nothing happened. Like a Keroyon or something. May as well put her near the drug store. Still, she felt uncomfortable under our stares, so she started blowing the already lukewarm tea to distract us.

“Ah, by the way!” Isshiki suddenly switched the topic while smiling widely.

“Is it true Hayama-senpai is going out with Yukinoshita-senpai or Yui-senpai?”

“Uogh!” Yuigahama shouted.

“...Excuse me?” Yukinoshita abruptly said. Damn. How can Isshiki step on landmines with such a calm expression. What are you, from Hurt Locker? Not to mention a four-seam fastball without any warnings. With you as a pitcher any game would be over soon. And if anyone learns about your fastball you’ll become famous very fast. Though, it’s Iroha Isshiki I’m talking about. No doubt she’d done that on purpose. And she came here specifically to check if the rumors were true or not.

“Iroha-chan, you know...” Yuigahama started explaining.

“Isshiki-san...” … but was immediately stopped by a scary cold voice. I looked at her. Her smile was like northern lights, her eyes were forged from ice caps. Isshiki clearly saw that and now was shivering. Even her voice was shivering.

“Y-Yes?” Isshiki managed to reply and immediately hid behind me, only peeking from behind my shoulder. Hey, stop using people as shield, you! Yukinoshita’s killer stare was directed at Isshiki.

“There is no way it can happen, don’t you think?”

“O-of course! I thought so too!”

“Yeah! No way!” Yuigahama eagerly confirmed.

“No-no, Yui-senpai, in your case it totally can happen,” Isshiki said waving her hands..

“Why?!” Yuigahama cried. What do you mean why?.. Well, take your looks for example. Looks is a scary thing! Seriously. While I was thinking about it, Isshiki again started saying something to a miffed Yuigahama and still mad Yukinoshita while swaying her hands all the while.

“Well… I knew from the start that neither Yui-senpai nor Yukinoshita-senpai don’t go out with him. But I’m still interested in those rumors.”

“Rumors?” Yukinoshita asked looking at me and Yuigahama.

“Yeah, people talk about stuff,” I said.

“I was surprised too. You know, about us going out? Remember we met back then? Seems like someone has seen us and jumped to conclusions.”

“I see. The usual gossip of the lowly trash.”

Oh come on. Others’ love life is always a favourite topic for any high school student. Add to that the fact that Hayama, Yuigahama and Yukinoshita and very noticeable people who everyone wants to discuss even more. Isshiki had a crush on Hayama, so it was only natural for her to check the rumor. I looked at her. Isshiki seemed to be in doubt, tilting her head and thinking about something.

“But that’s real bad.”

“Indeed. It’s very inconvenient for those who perpetuate the rumors.”

“Ah, no, that’s not what I’m talkin about,” Isshiki carefully said. Yukinoshita tilted her head.

“What, then?” She asked. Isshiki lifted her finger.

“It’s kinda strange, but until now there weren’t any rumors about Hayama-senpai’s love life.”

“True,” Yuigahama noted, looking at the ceiling as if pondering some idea. Ah, got it. I indeed didn’t remember ever hearing about this aspect of Hayama’s life. Though it’s not like I would really know about any aspect of his life. Not that anyone makes reports to me specifically about that or something. So all I can do is suspect. May as well google with Kokkuri-san.

“So many girls are worried about those rumors,” Isshiki muttered crossing her hands. Yep, no one ever gossiped about Hayato Hayama dating anyone. Hayato Hayama… It honestly wouldn’t be strange if he did date. His good-natured behaviour attracts girls. And I think many of them were afraid of such developments. And now, not thanks to the gossiping, the possibility of him going out was now obvious to everyone. I wonder how his closest environment would change regarding that.

“Rumors… He’s really unlucky...” Yukinoshita muttered to no one in particular. I saw ripples in her teacup.

“Oh come on! Don’t worry about that! They’ll die down eventually! You know what they say, all the rumors only last 49 days!” Yuigahama tried to console her.

“It’ actually 75 days.”

What, someone’s died recently?

“Anyway, let’s not dwell on it!” Yuigahama exclaimed for Yukinoshita’s sake. Indeed, everything we could do was just keep quiet. Fighting those who feel delight in spreading the rumors was meaningless. One just needed to crawl into a dark place and shut up. That was the only way to counter the negative misunderstandings and the tendencies to mock someone. Any attempts to persuade them otherwise while you’re red from shame would only agitate them further, because all they really want is entertainment. Besides, if anyone tried to defend the bullied person, they’d become the target themselves. This game always has a loser, like in rock-paper-scissors. A person could be criticized even for doing nothing, but in any case the damage will be minimal. Yukinoshita apparently knew it too, as she nodded:

“All right.”

“Would be nice,” Isshiki’s words were similar, but their meaning was slightly different. You start worrying me, so don’t do that anymore. I looked at Isshiki. She was simply drinking tea, like some granny on a veranda. She doesn’t plan to stay here until she gets some work in student council, now does she?



