1-2


The school campus that was already on winter break was empty.





The sun had already set in the scenery that peeked in from outside the window. Faint voices of those engaged in the activities of their sports could be heard coming from outside as well.





The fields were slightly lit up by the glow that spilled out from the school building and gym and the street lights. With no presence of people and minimal lighting, this campus was bleak as barrens. The chilly winds that blew from the sea shook the windows.





However, thanks to the slight heating, this room was submerged in warmth.





“Haaaa… The tea sure is good!” Sitting diagonally opposite of me, Yuigahama let out a voice that resembled a sigh of relief as she gently placed her mug on the table.





Both Yukinoshita and I returned a small nod to Yuigahama and placed our hands around our tea again. Yeah, yeah, we had better treasure our teatime!5





“It’s a good thing the Christmas event went well…” said Yuigahama laidback, easing up from the sensation of finishing a job.





Yukinoshita smiled. “That’s true. I wasn’t sure how it’d turn out, but it looks like we’re relieved of a burden now.”





“I guess so. Feels like it’s been a while since we’ve had the chance to relax too…”





In reality, these past few days were filled with unease as if something had been chasing us the entire time.





The Culture Festival, the Sports Festival, the field trip, the student council election, and lastly, the Christmas collaboration event. All those days appeared and disappeared, faded out and faded in…… Weren’t those just floating lanterns6? Did I die or something, non?





As I was reflecting about that, I drank the rest of the remaining tea. Although the cup was empty, it was still slightly warm.





I let out a short sigh. In that timing, three sighs overlapped.





Yukinoshita casually lifted her face and looked at Yuigahama’s mug. “Yuigahama-san, would you like another serving of tea?”





“Ah, thanks!” said Yuigahama as she happily extended out her mug.





“Hikigaya-kun, hand me your tea cup.”





“Mm.”





I handed over my cup without any particular complaints, but after thinking about it more closely, I had the feeling her words were oddly different for me.





“…Uh, wasn’t the reception just a little unequal there? The disparity’s a little too obvious, you know?” I said.





Regardless, Yukinoshita quickly directed her gaze to the box atop the table. As she was preparing the tea, she opened her mouth, “Also, there’s quite a bit of cookies left over so could I ask you two to help finish them?”





“Totally not listening to me either… Okay, well, I’ll still eat the cookies though. It’d be a waste since we won’t be at school for a while.”





I rustled through the cookies or whatever that were bunched up in the box and Yuigahama peeked in from the side.





“I’ll take two!”





“Sure, please help yourself.”





“Yay! The cookies that Yukinon makes are so good!”





Yukinoshita showed her a small smile and Yuigahama happily tried to bite into her cookie. But suddenly realizing something, she vigorously stood up from her chair.





“…Er, wroooooog!”





Yuigahama’s voice echoed in the quiet room.





“Oh, what’s the deal, suddenly standing up like that?”





“You’ll spill your tea, you know.”





But since Yukinoshita and I were long familiar with her noisiness, our reactions were composed. Heck, Yukinoshita was acting like a mom of the sort too.





Unhappy with our reactions, Yuigahama abruptly shot open her eyes and continued further. “You two are just way too laidback! Today, weren’t we supposed to talk about what to do after this!?”





Remembering once it was mentioned, Yukinoshita tilted her head. “Speaking of which, we were, weren’t we…”





“Yeah, yeah! So, today’s Christmas, what should we do? It’s a rare opportunity, so let’s all do something crazy!” Finally obtaining a satisfying response, Yuigahama nodded as she abruptly stretched out her hands.





Still, we were at a loss to her question. Reflexively, I scratched at my head. “Even if you say let’s do something… I was planning on spending Christmas normally at home though.”





“Eeeh? Is that reaaally normal? Isn’t Christmas, more like, where everyone goes PAN with that PAN-PAKA-PAN kind of feeling? 7 kind of feeling, right?”





“What kind of feeling is that? I have no clue what that means…”





Especially that PAN-PAKA-PAN part. That PAN-PAKA-PAN.





Yukinoshita placed her hand on her chin and began to think. “I don’t believe spending Christmas at home is anything unusual. In the west, celebrating it with your family is supposedly commonplace.”





“But we’re in Japan…” Yuigahama opened her mouth, moaning in discontent, but I stopped her there.





“Wait, calm down, Yuigahama. The European founding fathers were the ones saying that. So the correct answer here is to obediently spend your Christmas with your family. This is what they call the Christmas that was GLOBALIZED by way of the WORLD STANDARD.”





I retorted with an argument, but Yuigahama’s reaction seemed somewhat indifferent. She shook her hands in front of her face.





“No, no, I don’t know what the deal with THE WORLD or the STANDARD, but does that really matter? Everyone’s enjoying it like normal even if they aren’t too knowledgeable about it.”





“…That’s true, after getting localized over here, it’s become a unique aspect of Japanese culture,” said Yukinoshita after some consideration. For Yukinoshita to be persuaded like this was rather rare. Still, there was something else that was more shocking.





“Yuigahama actually made a sound argument…”





“Fufuun.” Yuigahama displayed a triumphant smile, teeming with pride.





“Well, fine. Let’s suppose that what Yuigahama said is right. So, what’s the correct way to enjoy Christmas in Japan then?”





Yuigahama tilted her head and went “hm?”





“Eh, like I said, normally—”





“To me, normal means to spend Christmas at home. I’ve never spent Christmas with anyone outside of my family before. What exactly are we supposed to do? Should I just go ‘wey, wey’? It’s not like we’re in front of a station of a college in April here…”





Yukinoshita nodded. It looked like she agreed as well. “Certainly, stations near colleges in April tend to be annoying in various ways.”





“Those guys were seriously saying ‘weeey’ for sure… Especially if it’s Christmas in the city, then those guys were definitely going ‘wey, wey, yolo, yolo’. When I think about how I might end up seeing guys like that, that alone already made me…”





I despaired to the thought of those guys who were sure to cause a ruckus no matter when or where regardless of whether it was at the beginning or end of the year.





Yuigahama waved her hands that went no way. “No, no, they don’t say stuff like ‘weeey’ or ‘yolo’ or whatever.”





“They totally do. Like Tobe.” I retorted instantly.





Yuigahama was at a loss for words. “Aah, Tobecchi is… But it’s Tobecchi, so there’s no helping it or something…” You sure had your way with words even if you were trying to brush it off with a smile.





Yukinoshita, who was listening, tilted her head and of course, said some horrible things as well. “Tobe-kun doesn’t really matter right now, but, um, what does ‘weeey” and ‘yolo’ mean?”





It really didn’t matter to Yukinoshita and it seemed like she was more interested with ‘weeey’ and ‘yolo than with Tobe. When asked, Yuigahama cocked her head to the side inquisitively.





“Who knows? I wonder………… Maybe, English?” Yuigahama said innocently, causing my cheeks to loosen. I couldn’t help but mix in a smile, letting out a voice that was meant for speaking with a child.





“That’s right. To Yuigahama, any word she doesn’t know gets treated as English, see. It’s okay, she just can’t help herself.”





“The way you’re saying it so nicely makes me upset!” Yuigahama retorted back sullenly. But look here, you were using the same kind of logic where all foreigners were Americans, so I couldn’t help but think of you as a little child, so what’d you expect…?





On the other hand, Yukinoshita had earnestly considered Yuigahama’s remark and was contemplating about something. “So ‘weeey’ in English… would be the equivalent of ‘wait’, which would be the meaning of ‘matsu’, I suppose…”





“No, I’m pretty sure that’s not it.”





In fact, they probably didn’t even know a lick of English, especially with their Japanese already being suspicious. But apparently, it had nothing to do with them having issues with wording or having low communicative ability. As a matter of fact, actually managing an actual conversation with a limited arsenal of vocabulary like “crap”, “totally that”, “ooh right”, “that, for sure”, and so forth indicated their communication ability was stupidly high. It was one super contextual culture. It really emphasized “our cultures are soooo different!”





While I was thinking that, Yukinoshita tensely looked in my direction. “Hikigaya-kun, wey. Stay, house.”





“So treating me like a dog, huh…?”





Don’t tell me you were betting your life on that? What do you know, that’s pretty sophisticated.





“Don’t even bother; I was ready to hit the road to my house a long time ago…”





When I attempted to head home obediently as I was instructed, Yuigahama forcibly pulled my sleeve and sat me back down.





“Wait, wait! Just wait! We haven’t even decided on anything yet.”





“Yeah, but still… Besides, you say to spend Christmas with everyone, but what are we supposed to do?”





Although I readjusted in my seat, I didn’t see any signs of progress from here. As usual, I still didn’t understand what you’re supposed to do when you hang out. By all means, I’d appreciate it if someone made a manual. Please put it on the Daijisen8. I feel there were a lot of people who could get the job done as long they knew the step-by-step process.





Well, a manual like that couldn’t possibly exist, as people learned through hearsay and under those who were experienced.





Yuigahama, who lived a life of hearsay, nodded her head as she thought. “Go nuts…! Is something Hikki probably wouldn’t like… The illumination is pretty? Then again, Hikki would just say he’ll go look at it by himself… Ummm, ummm…”





I couldn’t help but find myself slightly impressed with her.





“Oooh, she’s thinking ahead… It looks like we can finally see Yuigahama’s growth.”





“Actually, I think Hikigaya-kun’s growth is what we can’t see here… You’re going to be coming along anyway, so why not give up? You sure don’t learn.” Yukinoshita said with a look of amazement. But I had a thing or two to say about that.





“Look who’s talking, it doesn’t look like you’re learning either. You can’t expect me to tag along if you put it like that…”





“Oh, I can’t have you looking down on me. I’m making sure to learn myself,” said Yukinoshita, showing an unyielding smile. But midway, it lost its spirit. “…Yuigahama-san, she may not look like it, but she can be really stubborn, so there are times when turning her down is pointless.”





“That’s not learning, that’s being whipped…”





Well, Yukinoshita and Yuigahama’s slightly unhealthy relationship was in its own way a sign of progress, so that’s fine, yes.





Or so I was thinking until Yuigahama shot up her hands. “Ah, I know!”





“It looks like you have something in mind. Can we hear it?”





Once Yukinoshita was ready to hear her out (fully whipped), Yuigahama lifted her finger. She spun it and opened her mouth not looking very confident. “Umm… W-We can all eat chicken together, or something!”





“We can already eat that at any time, can’t we…?”





“With that logic, then places like the yakitori stores would have Christmas every day. Besides, there’s already chicken at my place anyway.”





Yukinoshita adjusted herself towards me with a smiling face. “‘There’s’? Are you sure you don’t mean ‘I am’?”





“Hey, hey, I can’t have you lumping up other chickens with the ones at my place. They’re super easy to eat since they’re boneless too. Include my pops and we have two lively ones. Compared to houses elsewhere, our place was extravagant. By the way, when we count chickens, can we count them using ‘lively’?”





“If they’re still alive, then ‘lively’ should be fine.”





“Don’t say things like ‘still alive’! Grotesque things are banned! I won’t feel like eating chicken anymore!”





Yuigahama let out a heart wrenching scream. Still, if it ended on that note, then Yuigahama’s suggestion wouldn’t mean anything anymore.





“If you’re not going to eat chicken, then that means we won’t need to hold a party. The objective is gone.”





“Hikki, you schemer!” said Yuigahama, choking on her words, but still continued. “O-Okay, if chicken’s no good, then… Let’s eat cake instead, cake!”





“Cake, huh…”





I tried giving some thought to cakes. Honestly, back during the earlier Christmas event, we had made a mountain of cakes, so I wasn’t sure what to think if we had to eat even more of them. Besides, whether it was chicken or cake, we could eat those whenever we wanted. The condition, “during Christmas”, seemed just a little too lackluster.





Hmmm.





Yuigahama looked into my face apprehensively and asked, “Huh, you don’t seem too interested… Hikki, were you bad with sweet things?”





Just as I was about to open my mouth to answer, an individual did so before I could.





“Not at all. As a matter of fact, he likes thems.”





“Why did you answer, Yukinoshita…? Was this self-introduction time or something? Well, I do like sweet stuff though…”





Yukinoshita flicked away the hair against her shoulders and looked at me with a composed expression. “It’s not something we need to check. Coffee that sweet isn’t something you can drink unless you have a considerable sweet tooth, right?”





“Hah, you’re underestimating MAX COFFEE too much. Sweet tooth or not, I drink it out of necessity. The farmers of Chiba are extremely likely to buy them in bulk too. When it comes to replenishing body fatigue, it’s the most optimal.”





In reality, the farmers of Chiba did tend to buy MAX COFFEE in bulk, even 4-koma magazines too. I saw it in an extracurricular lesson during elementary when we went to a farm so there’s no doubt about it. Times of exhaustion called for something sweet. To be consuming this much MAX COFFEE made me wonder if the residents of Chiba were just way too tired.





Just when I figured I’d enlighten them to the sweetness and wonders of MAX COFFEE, Yuigahama tilted her head. “Hikki, you don’t really seem like you’re tired though… Like how you’re always conserving energy… or maybe being economical, or laidback? You always feel like that.”





“Just so you know, conserving energy and economical doesn’t mean to take it easy…”





“So you’re aware that you’ve been cutting corners in life… However, from the perspective of people you don’t know, your rotten eyes would certainly give the impression that you’re tired… Yet you’re completely healthy… As usual, your eyes are formidable.”





“No, as a matter of fact, this conversation is making me tired. So can I go home?”





“Like I said, you can’t go home yet! Argh, whatever’s fine! For now let’s decide on something! Something, okay!”





“So pushy…”





So this was the mysterious hardheadedness that whipped Yukinoshita, huh…?





The rude thought floated in my head and Yuigahama casted her face downwards.





“If you don’t really want to, then, that’s fine too…” said Yuigahama, shooting me suggestive peeks with upturned eyes.





“Er, no, it’s not that I don’t want to, but when I hear Christmas, there’re just too many little things that I can’t wrap my head around or something…”





When she showed me that kind of expression, I couldn’t help but feel incredibly guilty. But if I pardoned the framework-like thing called Christmas here, I had the feeling she might go “hey, hey” and nag about other things too. Unless we could draw a line that I’d be okay with, it wouldn’t work… Uwaah, this guy sure was a pain. By this guy, I mean me.





As I was groaning while conflicted, Yukinoshita who was watching our exchange let out a short sigh. “It’s not something you need to think so hard about. Instead of Christmas, think of it as a simple party. I’ll be accompanying Yuigahama-san.”





Yuigahama’s face instantly lit up when she heard that and she flew at Yukinoshita.





“Yukinon, thank you! That’s right! Maybe a simple party might be better. Iroha-chan and the others are probably busy with the student council too. Besides, we can think of it as a thank-you to Sai-chan and Komachi-chan for helping us earlier.”





“Yes, if you think of it as something to appreciate their help, then I believe that would be enough of a reason to go.” Yukinoshita said, peeling Yuigahama off of her. I listened to the suggestion and contemplated.





“…I see, you have a point… But, well, today won’t work for me.”





“Why?” Yuigahama removed her face from Yukinoshita and looked at me.





It was either from chicken or cake that I remembered I was entrusted with the task of bringing home the party barrel we reserved.





“I need to bring back chicken for my family. Besides, you know, at least for today, I need to prepare dinner instead of Komachi.”





Yuigahama made a surprised expression. “He’s surprisingly a devoted husband……?”





“It’s rather rare for Hikigaya-kun to have any plans.”





I instinctively smiled bitterly in response to Yukinoshita’s words. You’re absolutely right. For the most part, I’d never have any plans, but in regards to family, mostly Komachi, I made sure not to ignore them.





“Sorry, but anyway, that’s how it is, so today is a no go.”





“I see… If you have things to do, then there’s not much we can do, I guess…” Yuigahama nodded her head, looking convinced of something. She made an “ahaha” laugh and quietly sighed.





It may have been a sudden suggestion, but Yuigahama was probably looking forward to Christmas. In her case, she had plenty of friends she could spend time with. That’s why I felt apologetic when she was making this kind of expression for someone like me.





Yukinoshita looked at Yuigahama anxiously, presumably feeling the same way. She then shifted her gaze to me. “If today doesn’t work, you won’t mind tomorrow then?”





“…Well, I don’t have anything particular to do.” I answered as I scratched my head.





Realizing what that meant, Yuigahama looked at Yukinoshita, then me, and clapped her hands.





“Eh, eh, ah, right, I see! Okay, tomorrow it is then! So tomorrow, we’ll get ready and get everyone to go buy presents and stuff!”





Quietly watching the energetic Yuigahama, Yukinoshita nodded as well. “Sure. I think that’s fine. Today, I’m feeling, just a little tired…”





It looked like that was a relief for Yukinoshita. But thanks to that, our conversation ended on a good note and I stood up from my seat. Now I just had to go pick up the chicken and go home…





“…Okay, so we’ll leave it at that.”





I put my hands on the door to the room. –Aah, right. I had to say this just in case. After rethinking, I turned back to the two.





“See you, tomorrow.”





Yukinoshita looked slightly surprised, but she quickly showed a small smile while Yuigahama energetically waved her hands.





“Yes, see you tomorrow.”





“Yeah, see you tomorrow!”





Taking those remaining words with my back turned, I left the room. It felt like it had been a long time since I was able to exchange these kinds of trivial goodbyes.






